Overview

This assignment is a practical, hands-on project for groups of five students worth 30% of your final grade. The objective is to find a real-world client with a problem that can be addressed through computer science solutions. This project is divided into three phases: 

Phase 1: Group formation, Collaboration setup, Client engagement and problem identification
Phase 2: Problem description and Solution design
Phase 3: Analysis of the design and final report + Individual reflection

Note 1: Make sure you communicate with your group. All official communication will be on D2L or Google docs. You are welcome to use other tools for unofficial communication. 

Note 2: All group assessments are subject to individual negative marking based on feedback from your group and TA assessment of your contributions.


Phase 1: Group formation, Collaboration setup (3%), Client Engagement and Problem Identification (2%)
Due: Monday Feb 23, 11:59 pm (no extensions)

Task 1: Individual Perspective On Collaboration
Complete an individual questionnaire on your perspectives and expectations about collaboration. Group Project - Task 1

Task 2: Group Discussion and Collaboration Agreement
Before beginning any technical design or client work, your group will discuss and compare answers from Task 1, and compromise to consolidate in a group write up your collective expectations on collaboration for this project. Every member must make their own D2L submission (one group document). 

Task 3: Identifying a Client.

Objective: Find a real-world client (individual, business, non-profit, etc.) who has a problem that can be addressed with a computer science solution.

Examples of Problems:

Small Business Inventory Management: Developing a system to track and manage inventory efficiently.

Educational Resource Access for Remote Learning: Creating an online platform to provide accessible educational resources.

Finding a dog walker: Building a solution to be able to find dog walkers on-demand. 

Healthcare Appointment Scheduling System: Designing a system to streamline appointment scheduling for a clinic.

Student Resume Feedback Portal: Establishing an online portal for experts to provide feedback on student resumes.

D2L Submission: 

Individual submission of personal perspectives and expectations about collaboration 

Group agreement on collaboration 

Details of the client and brief problem statement (200 words)

Phase 2: Problem description and Solution Design (10%)
Due: Sunday, March 22, 11:59 pm

Task 1: Gathering Details from the Client

Objective: Clarify and collect all necessary details from the client about the problem.

Method: Conduct meetings, surveys, or interviews with the client to gather comprehensive information about the problem.

Task 2: Creating a Design Document

Objective: Design a computer science solution to the identified problem.

Components of the Design Document:

Introduction: Description of the problem and its significance.

Requirements Analysis: Detailed analysis of the client’s needs. (from your Phase 1)

Proposed Solution: A clear description of the proposed solution, including technical specifications, any software, and hardware requirements.

System Architecture: Diagrams and explanations of the system architecture, including data flow and user interface (can be hand-drawn or digital).

Implementation Plan: Timeline and resources required for implementing the solution.

D2L submission: A comprehensive design document summarizing the problem, client’s requirements, constraints, and any relevant data, your proposed solution, system architecture and implementation plan  (1500 words minimum, you can include images, tables and figure).

 

Phase 3: Analysis and Communication (10%)

Task 1: Analyzing the Design

Objective: Conduct a thorough analysis of the design for security, privacy, equity (accessibility), sustainability, ethical considerations, and potential impact.

D2L submission (Due: Sunday April 5, 11:59 pm): A final report containing the analysis, covering these aspects: security, privacy, equity, sustainability, ethical considerations, and societal impact. (2000 words minimum for the total document - 1000 words minimum for the new section on analysis and conclusion).

Task 2: Client Feedback

Objective: Communicate the design and its analysis to the client for feedback.

Method: Present the design and analysis to the client through a formal presentation or email the detailed report.

D2L submission (Due: Friday, April 10, 11:59 pm): Confirmation of client communication

 

Final Submission (5%) 

Objective: Individual Reflection

D2L Submission: (Due: Friday, April 10, 11:59 pm)

A 500-word minimum summary (or a 3-minute video) elaborating what you did on the project and how you contributed to it.

Reflect on working in a group. What were some benefits? What were some challenges? 

Include any screenshots, images etc. as needed.

Assessment Criteria

Client Engagement: Effectiveness in identifying and communicating with the client.

Problem Analysis: Depth and clarity in understanding the problem.

Solution Design: Creativity, practicality, and technical soundness of the proposed solution.

Analysis and Ethical Consideration: Thoroughness in analyzing the design and considering its broader implications.

Presentation and Communication Skills: Clarity and professionalism in all forms of communication.

Collaboration and Teamwork: Ability to work effectively as a team.
